C# & OOPS
What are 4 piller of OOPS?
Stack & Heap ?

How do you implement abstraction in C#?


Cohesion in OOP
What is Coupling in OOP?
What is the difference between cohesion and coupling?
https://ducmanhphan.github.io/2019-03-23-Coupling-and-Cohension-in-OOP/#cohesion

Why Doesn't C# Allow Static Methods to Implement an Interface? Why interface Cannot have static methods C#?
What is the difference between Interface & Abstract class with code example
Can you create an instance of an abstract class?.
Can Abstract class be Sealed in C#?
Can abstract class have Constructors in C#?
Can you declare abstract methods as private in C#?

.Net Framework
Object lifecycle, memory allocation, GC 
What is CLR?
GC.Collect()
Threading, async and await, ConfigureAwait 
TPL -  Just aware of not worked
difference between Delegates and javascript callbacks  


MVC - All questions  
What is the difference between ActionResult and ViewResult? 
Action Filters in MVC? -  
What is Output Caching in MVC? -  
What is the use of Keep and Peek in “TempData”? -  
If we have multiple filters, what’s the sequence for execution?
Bundling & minification and real time scenarios

Web API
Http verbs (GET/POST/PUT/DELETE/PATCH) - OTIONS
API versioning -  
What if I have multiple search parameters and I have added it in query string, is it good way to do that. -  

The purpose of using Web API
Http verbs
API versioning
What if I have multiple search parameters and I have added it in query string, is it good way to do that .
http patch.
Dependency injection chaining – no idea

https://gokhansengun.com/asp-net-mvc-and-web-api-comparison-of-async-or-sync-actions/
Synchronous and asynchronous in web api.
async and await

.Net Core
Diff between .Net core and .Net - 
AddTransient, AddScoped and AddSingleton Services Differences
Middleware Pipeline - 
Swagger -

Desin pattenrs used in project
Repository pattern? 
Observer design pattern - 
Solid principles
UnitContainer
DI in project
DI chaining in project
DI Frameworks
 
SQL & Database -  
How can we improve the databas table performance? - 
CTE ? - 
TVP ? - 
UDT ?
NoSql -

Sql
Temporary Tables
Table variable.
Stored procedures

Difference between Delegates and Events -

What is Tuple?
What is time Complexity of binary search?
How to prevent deadlock and race condition in multi threaded environment?
Difference between task TPL & Thread? Async & Await? ConfigureAwait -
SemaphoreSlim Vs Semaphore?
Different types of collections? Generic collection, non generic collections.
main diff btwn IEnumerable vs IEnumerator & IList, IQuarable
Any & Count  and which is better in performance wise
 
Entity framework
DB First / Code first approch - 
How the mapping between entity and database ?

Unit Tests
Mock? - 
Integration Testing / UI Integration Testing 

Javascript
What is Closure? - 
Object Inheritance -  

Application Security
What all actions you would take to make sure that your application is secure from both front end and backend.

Angular ?
What is the difference between angularjs and angular
What is typescript
Explain different components or directives in angular
Have hand-on experience in Angular 8 and says he is very confirmatable in working in Angular, have worked with the Angular latest version.

Can you create an instance of an abstract class?.
main diff btwn IEnumeration & IList
Any & Count  and which is better in performance wise
solid principles
diff between .net core and .net 
Garbage collection, use

Entity Framework
Entity framework - DB First approach - explained
Unit Tests
Unit testing – exp in Nunit and answered.
Code coverage - No answered.


Mandatory skill 1    •    Async programming
•    OOPS
•    Solid Principals
•    Linq Queries
•    Design Patterns
•    Extension Classes
     3     
Mandatory skill 2    •    Web Api filters and execution flow
•    Web Methods, headers & Root resolution process
•    Web Attributes
•    Dependency resolvers & dependency Injection
•    Bundling & minification and real time scenarios

 

     2.5     
Mandatory skill 3    •    Usage of SP’s and functions
•    Temp tables
•    Indexes
•    Query performance
•    Joins and relationships      2.5     

 

Merge to Array and Sort - Through array only
Payload {} - Open closes are proper or not - Better than Khadar
Log File - Problem and Solution, Stack Trace was there there - NuGet Package - 1st Round 
No > 1 place left side of the array .. right side of array 
Open Parathesesis close Parathesesis - Using Stack, using clue 
State Maangement - Take data in Diff Pages - Session Management - Siddharat  

 

Note - Bangalore, Pune - Siddhart

 

•    Data structure related programs
o    Stack
o    Heep
o    Queue
o    Solving "{ , [, (" are correctly matched with given string
o    Array related programs (soring in array, merging array and sorting, etc)
•    One more question from Sid is
o    How to carry data from one page to another. (state / session management technique)
•     OOPS Concept
•    Design pattern